API documentation for setResponseCallback and co. (#228)
k6io/docs: src/data/markdown/docs/02 javascript api/07 k6-http/10-set-response-callback-expectedStatuses.md

---
title: 'setResponseCallback( callback )'
description: 'set responseCallback to mark responses as expected'
---

> ### 🎉 New in v0.31.0

Set the response callback to be called to determine if a response was expected/successful or not.

The result of this is that requests will be tagged with `expected_response` `"true"` or `"false"` and `http_req_failed` will be emitted with the reverse. This does include all redirects so if for a request only 200 is the expected response and there is 301 redirect before that, the redirect will be marked as failed as only status code 200 was marked as expected.

#### Exceptions

Due to implementation specifics:
- Requests with authentication `digest` are always expected to first get 401 and then to get whatever was specified.

> - Requests with authentication `ntlm` will let a 401 status code, but also let it not be 401

Reviewer: The `ntlm` explanation is a bit confusing. Maybe:
```suggestion
- Requests with authentication `ntlm` will not mark a 401 response as failed, but this can be overridden with `expectedStatuses`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- Requests with authentication `ntlm` will let a 401 status code on the first request as well as anything defined by `expectedStatuses`
```

The idea is that `digest` always wants 401 as the first response, while for NTLM it might have already been authenticated and as it is tcp connection based (the whole tcp connection is authenticated) it might not actually need to reauthenticate - so either 401 or `expectedStatuses(status)` is okay 

But yeah ... the original sentence makes no sense to me, now, as well

Set the response callback to be called to determine if a response was expected/successful or not.

The result of this is that requests will be tagged with `expected_response` `"true"` or `"false"` and `http_req_failed` will be emitted with the reverse. This does include all redirects so if for a request only 200 is the expected response and there is 301 redirect before that, the redirect will be marked as failed as only status code 200 was marked as expected.

#### Exceptions

Due to implementation specifics:

> - Requests with authentication `digest` are always expected to first get 401 and then to get w/e was defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requests with authentication `digest` are always expected to first get 401 and then to get whatever was specified.
```

- Requests with authentication `ntlm` will let a 401 status code, but also let it not be 401

| Parameter | Type            | Description                                                      |
| --------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| callback  | [expectedStatuses](/javascript-api/k6-http/expectedstatuses-statuses) | an object returned from [expectedStatuses](/javascript-api/k6-http/expectedstatuses-statuses) |

> Currently only the very special [expectedStatuses](/javascript-api/k6-http/expectedstatuses-statuses) objects are supported but in the future it is planned that a javascript callback will be supported as well. By default requests with status codes between 200 and 399 are considered "expected".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently only the very special [expectedStatuses](/javascript-api/k6-http/expectedstatuses-statuses) objects are supported but in the future it is planned that a JavaScript callback will be supported as well. By default requests with status codes between 200 and 399 are considered "expected".
```

Setting the callback to `null` disables the tagging with `expected_response` and the emitting of `http_req_failed`, effectively reverting to the behaviour prior to v0.31.0.

> It is recommended that if a per request responseCallback is used with the [Params](/javascript-api/k6-http/params) it is actually defined once and used instead of creating it on each request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that if a per request responseCallback is used with [Params](/javascript-api/k6-http/params) it is actually defined once and used instead of creating it on each request.
```
